---
layout: post
title: Difference between Information Security and Computer Security
description: This would be my first post
image: assets/images/pic12.jpg
---

In order to diffrentiate between computer and information security let us first define the two forms of security.

<h3>Computer security</h3>
It is basically measures and controls that ensure confidentiality, integrity and availability of information system assets including hardware, software, firmware, and information being processed, stored, and communicated.[1]

<h3>Information Security</h3>
It is the protection of information and information systems from unauthorised access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction in order to provide confidentiality, integrity, and availability.[2] It not deals with all the assests that computer security deals with but also deals with the human aspect as well. People are an integral part of information security as they are the weakest link in the information security infrastructure. The strongest of information security is useless if an authorised user compromises the system

Confidentiality, integrity and availability, also known as the CIA triad, is a model designed to guide policies for security within an organisation.[3] Although both forms of security follow the same CIA model both computer and information security have a few differences. At first we may see that computer security is only about the hardware aspect, but it also takes into account the software, firmware, and information being stored and communicated. Information security handles all the things that computer security handles but the key difference lies in the fact that information security keeps into account the people who would be accessing the system. Hence we can say that computer security is a subset of information security.

<h3>Reference</h3>
[1] & [2] J.P. Auffret (2014, September 22). Deciphering the IT/Cyber Lexicon. Retrieved from http://www.business.gmu.edu/blog/tech/2014/09/22/deciphering-itcyber-lexicon/?hvid=3mmHZf<br />
[3] Confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA triad) retrieved from http://www.whatis.techtarget.com/definition/Confidentiality-integrity-and-availability-CIA